For example, they'd be sending frantic cables
from Vietnam for various spare parts when lo and
behold they had maybe a year's supply of them at Cam
Ranh Bay in a depot that they hadn't identified or
categorized or picked up on their records or what
have you. And situations like that, just too
numerous to even mention. No kidding.
Absolutely. Cameron Bay, the stuff would arrive
over there in boxes and they would stack them up and
put them out in the open, cover them up with
tarpaulins and nobody ever made any effort to
determine what the hell was under these tarps. Was
it needed, was it in, and even with an
identification code some of the stuff that was
needed for for aircraft that were out of, off of
readiness status. Some of the boxes were
imprinted with red dots and this sort of thing to
indicate priority cargo that was needed for
deadline vehicles or aircraft. We found a lot of
deadline cargo shipments under these
tarpaulins. The stuff was so marked and There
should have been immediately when it arrived in
the command and came off of the airplane, it was all
hauled by air freight over there. It should have
gone right to a point where it was disseminated and
identified as to who had requisitioned it and what
the purpose was. But those kind of things are just
due to lack of management attention. And it's a
constant reminder of an old saying that a
commander that I remember during the war said that
a unit does well only those things that the boss
checks up on and that's so true. Patton didn't say
that, he's attributed to having said that, but
originally I think that General Courthouse Lee
said that. He was a rather infamous commander of
the U.S. service forces under Eisenhower in
Europe. Nobody liked him. He was a very
high-powered Episcopal lay reader. But he made
that statement, and I think old Courthouse Lee was
right. Well, anyway, it was a very bad situation,
and the Secretary of Defense's office, I don't
know who in the Secretary of Defense's office,
said that in connection with this high-winder
trip we made in 1966, if we could get some shots of
some of these bad examples on movie film. So, when I
arrived in the command, the deputy commander,
General Abrams, who later was the commander
general in Vietnam, I told Abe, and I had gone to the
War College with Abe, so I knew him on a first-name
basis. I told him that SecDef's office wanted me to
wherever I could to put some pictures on film,
movie film, of some of the logistic problems that
we could help out with. They said fine, so he
assigned a combat cameraman and a crew of two other
people with our team. And as a matter of fact, we
took pictures of almost everything. Every time
I'd look up, these guys were taking pictures.
Finally, after it all got done, a 45-minute
edited film was made of the trip. As a matter of
fact, I've got a copy of it in my personal records.
No kidding. Yes, I have. It's a sound...
No, it's not a soundtrack. I put a soundtrack on it.
I dubbed a soundtrack in. I went up to Long Island to
the Signal Corps Depot and dubbed in a soundtrack
on it. So now it does have a soundtrack? Yeah, it
does have a soundtrack. Can I see that movie? Yeah,
you could. I've got it. It's stored at home, and I
don't have a projector, but I'll arrange some time
to come down and show it to you. No, why don't you
just send it to me? Okay. Because I have tons of
projectors at the university. Yeah, I'd really
like to see that film because I teach Vietnam, and
I'd like to see it for my own edification. Yeah.
Okay, the film, I'm not sure the whole, I know I
opened the film with a narrative, and maybe, but
there's not sound on every little scene. I'll do
that. I'll send it to you. I'd love to see it. And it
was, it's, not many horrible examples are shown.
It wound up, I didn't edit it. I didn't do the
editing. And they didn't show some of the bad
things that I wanted to show. But it's a pretty good
picture of some
of the depots and the riverine force in Vietnam.
This was a very, I think one of the most capable
operations in Vietnam was that riverine force.
And I spent several days with them. Where about? On
the river there, and up and down the river with
them. Went on patrols with them. Saigon River?
Yeah, yeah. And went on patrols with them. Matter
of fact, we almost had an accident flying off of one
of those ships. There was a tail rotor on our
chopper, just barely nicked a mast on the damn
thing. And we'd have gone right in the water if it
had hit it. But it just scraped it. Because the
pilot was just utterly scared to death. He didn't
know whether to go ahead and go on and lift off or
what. Because we heard it real loud. But anyway,
let's get back to Abrams and Westmoreland now. So
Abrams gave me a lot of cooperation.
Westmoreland, I don't know. I think there's a lot
of truth in what CBS said about Westmoreland. Just
recently, yeah? Yes, just recently. And
Westmoreland, of course, is very unhappy about
it. That he falsified some documents. Yeah, and a
lot of people have risen to his defense.
I really felt in 1966, when I was over there, that we
were going to win this war. that we could win this
war, and I felt, and as do the strategic people, and
I certainly agree with them, that the failure that
we made, and that Westmoreland made, was not
insisting. We had enough troops over there to win.
Oh, goodness knows we had enough support over
there to win. We had enough logistics support.
It's the only war, really, in recent, in all our
history, and of course, I'm for our troops in the
field and our fighting forces really getting the
very best of everything. This is the only war where
we went, where Westmoreland wanted to go better
than first class. You know? He wanted to do better
than first class. And in many respects they did.
For example, in rations. They, all of Vietnam, the
subsistence was issued in Vietnam on the basis 125
percent of the authorized ration, they got 25
percent more food per capita in Vietnam than they
were supposed to get. It was 125 percent of
everything, the ration. And wherever it could be
done, in other words, even with a unit out in the
bush on patrol, they tried to bring them in
thermotainers every day, at least one hot meal.
And some unit commanders in some outfits tried, in
addition to one hot meal, also tried to bring them
ice cream once a day in these thermotainers. And
they did, they absolutely did, because I was out in
some of the units on patrol and at lunchtime we had
ice cream and we had hot fried chicken and so forth.
I'll never forget at Da Nang, going in the, at the
Marine Depot in Da Nang.
The officers club was a beautiful little club they
built with a huge picture window. You could sit in
the officers club in the evening and watch an
artillery duel. through the picture window, you
could see the artillery flashes way off in the
horizon between our forces and the Viet Cong. And
at the briefing I got at Da Nang at this marine
depot, this young officer, a marine first
lieutenant, I think, or second lieutenant, was
telling about his ice cream plant. And he said,
we're known as the Howard Johnsons of Vietnam. He
says, we make and serve daily. eight different
flavors of ice cream. And he then enumerated
chocolate vanilla, strawberry, pecan, and so
forth. Eight flavors of ice cream. The Howard
Johnsons of Vietnam. This was in the briefing for a
visiting general officer or an inspection team.
And the same sort of feeling prevailed
everywhere. You know, that we've got this, we've
got that, and the best of everything, and it was
better than first class. Of course, life out in the
bush on patrol and out in the rice paddy and
fighting the comm, there's nothing first class
about that. And being shot and leeches and
mosquitoes on you and that. But everything else,
back in the rear areas and the headquarters and the
hotels in Saigon, the officer's club on top of the
hotel there in Saigon, where you could also see
artillery duels on the horizon at night while
you're having a charcoal broil steak up there and
all kinds of drinks.
And those sorts of things are directly related to
command. Directly related to command.
Westmoreland did not utilize in an efficient,
military, cold-blooded military way the assets
that he had. He did not do it. Can you give him an
example? Well, all the spare parts and all the
maintenance supplies and everything were there.
they were there covered up with tarpaulins. He
didn't have somebody out there digging and doing
this and doing that and expediting maintenance
and keeping all these choppers ready to fly and the
aircraft ready to fly. There was a large
percentage of our air support aircraft were down
for maintenance on any given day. A large support
of our helicopters were down for maintenance on a
given day. and other vehicles and so forth. I think
the maintenance in the riverine force was better
than any part in Vietnam. And those sort of things
ultimately reflect themselves in combat
efficiency. When you don't have a force well
maintained and everything that you have is not
capable to fight, you're not going to fight as
well. And you're not going to fight as
effectively. What did the Secretary of Defense
say when you handed him your report and the film?
Well they were, you know, they were a little bit
appalled and shocked and of course a lot of cables
went back and forth and the command, you know,
always takes a defensive posture and well we had
some new personnel at Cameron Bay and these things
were missed and we've initiated new procedures to
do this and do that and so forth. I think in Vietnam
as a whole there were some broad strategic
decisions. This is my own personal opinion now
that you probably can't lay in Westmoreland's
lap. But I think that we should have bombed or mined
Haiphong a long, long time before we did.
Westmoreland would agree with you there. Yeah,
and we should have inflicted interdiction damage
upon parts of North Vietnam. to preclude them
having the capability to move down into South
Vietnam.
It was a difficult war because many times you had
difficulty even identifying your enemy. The con,
you know, wearing their black pajamas and
everything. It was difficult to even identify
them. And I know even the choppers that I flew
around in and any general officer, senior officer
for that matter, was always a machine gunner
sitting in each door. And we would take off and then
rise up immediately at about 1500 feet to get above
small arms and accurate range before we'd start
across country. and these machine gunners would
see somebody down there and there was a jungler or a
rice paddy and they weren't real sure whether they
were calm or not, but they'd fire a burst at them
anyway. Really? Yeah, and I told this one kid one
day, I said, you sure do have a nimble finger. He
said, well, he said, they look like calm to me. I
said, well, we're about fifteen, sixteen hundred
feet above them and I can't identify them, but he
was shooting at them and But I think that these
broad strategic decisions, I think they weren't
made because there was some fear that the Red
Chinese or the Soviets might intervene in some
strategic way if we did. I don't believe they would
have. No. I don't believe they would have. But I
blame Westmoreland for not using what he had
there. And it was millions of tons of military
equipment and hardware. Could you compare
Westmoreland and the type of man or commander he
was with that of Creighton Abrams?
Westmoreland was a fancy Dan type of a guy that
wants to you know be high and mighty and powerful
and look real fancy and real glamour boy and sexy
type and but he's not a gutty earthy down-to-earth
type individual. I don't think he ever, I don't
think the average G.I. ever thought very much of
Westmoreland. And they did of Abrams. Did in World
War II of Abrams and in Vietnam. But uh- Why? Tell me
about Abrams. Tell me about Abrams. You must have
known him much better. Yeah, I knew him a lot
better. I think when Abrams took over, he had
inherited an impossible situation. It was almost
beyond rehabilitation or beyond saving. We were
not going to, we were apparently not going to make
these broad strategic decisions. We finally did
bomb Hanoi and some of those places rather
extensively, but it was a little too late then.
Abrams inherited, he improved the logistic
situation tremendously in a short period of time.
He really did that.
But we were pretty far down the pike of being an
unwanted, unwinnable war by the time Creighton
Abrams took over. If Creighton Abrams had gone in
there when Westmoreland did, I think we'd have won
that war. Well, now let's answer the big question.
How could we have won that war, or why did we lose? We
lost that war because our commanders in the field,
our highest commanders in the field, did not exert
the all-out maximum effort that they should have
exerted. And we lost that war also because the will
of our country was really not for winning that war.
with all the dissension at home and I think that the
dissension at home affected the strategic
planning and decisions that were not made about
some of these things early in the war to bomb and
mine Haiphong Harbor and bomb Hanoi or bomb the
communication lines and other things. I think
that the problems at home the unwelcomeness of the
war and the unpopularity of the war. And then I
think, and you probably have heard a lot of people
say this,
I think that the war became extremely unpopular
and unpalatable to every American, including the
military Americans, because of the exposure of
the war. the media exposure of the war. We had it in
our bedrooms, in our living rooms, and in our
dining rooms at every newscast period of every
waking day. And we only saw the good, the bad side of
the war. We panned in on the guys burning down the
little villages and the Viet Cong refuge
hoochies. When they'd root them out and find them,
then they'd burn them down so they wouldn't move in
and occupy them again. And we saw the little old
ladies in the, holding the naked babies, sitting
in the rice paddies crying. Now this is what the
news guys took the pictures of. And you give
anybody those pictures over and over and over
again. If we had had the same exposure to World War
II that we had to Vietnam, it would have been just as
unpopular, maybe far more unpopular. If we had had
in our living rooms and in our dining rooms the
pictures of the refugees on the Autobahns in
Germany when the 3rd Armored Division was going by
and the refugees stand there holding out their
hands and begging for food and all this sort of
thing. Why, the American people would have just
wretched. And if we had seen some of the other
things that went on, we didn't have any of this in
Vietnam, but I don't know if anybody there
mentioned it. There was a hell of a lot of looting in
World War II on the part of the American soldiers.
If we'd have had a few pictures of that on the
movies, on the television screens, this would
have made it a very unpopular war. I'm not saying
that the press should not have been allowed in
Vietnam, but the exposure, it did the thing. We see
the same thing now in Beirut today. You see the same
thing. And the majority of American people and I
think it's generally a correct assumption, have
assumed that Israelis are the vicious aggressor
in this thing. And I think Begin is a little bit on
the madman side, or the side that he thinks he's the
little Napoleon. But if we'd have had the same
exposure in World War II or World War I, that we had
in Vietnam, it would have been just as unpopular.
And God knows it would have been, the Civil War
would have been far more unpopular if we'd have had
the same exposure. The same media exposure. But I
think we could have won Vietnam if we'd have had a
Patton in command in Vietnam. If we'd have had
somebody with the mentality of Patton. And Abrams
did have the mentality of a Patton. because Abrams
was one of Patton's young, bright, brilliant
combat commanders in World War II. But
Westmoreland was a fancy Dan. I don't know that he
falsified the reports of the Kong back to the JCS,
but I wouldn't be a bit surprised if he thought it
was enhancing his position. He might have. I don't
trust the guy. I really don't. Okay, let's talk
about your last job then, command of the Defense
Personnel Support Center. Yeah. And what impact
did Vietnam have on that? Tremendous impact. Tell
me about it. Because the buildup, of course,
increased our requirements for everything, food
and clothing. I told you yesterday about the
problems we had to get coverage of equipment and
particularly clothing and combat equipment and
combat clothing and tentage and all this sort of
thing and even some medical items for the support
of the troops in Vietnam where we had to because,
and I relate this to what we've just been talking
about, the unpopularity of the war No legitimate,
very few legitimate American businesses would
even bid on the requirements of the military at the
start of the Vietnam buildup. Well, do you think
that was because of what you said yesterday, the
excellent economy, or was that because the war was
unpopular in 1966? I think it was a combination of
both. It was a combination of both. I think the war
was unpopular and becoming more so every day.
Plus, a booming economy. And the businesses
didn't want to interfere with their
relationships, with their customers.
Everything was good. And the Johnson
administration had not put us on a wartime basis.
We wanted to have guns and butter, too. He said that
in a statement, I think. And so the military was at
the mercy of the will and the desire of business to
help support the Vietnam effort. It really, it's
hard for me to say this, but I will say it, I think it
slowed down our effort several months. It slowed
it down. I know it slowed down the training in the
reception centers in the United States. Because
they did not have the supplies. Because we did not
have. They were not able to bring in as many people
as quickly as they did because they didn't have
clothing for them. And then we went out on, they
went out on the open market. The reception centers
were given local authority to go out into Sears and
Robux and buy an army surplus stores and buy khaki
uniforms and fatigue clothing to have for the raw
recruits when they came in to start basic
training. And we just didn't have it. And because
nobody would bid on it. And we had to finally resort
to this wartime authority that was passed in World
War II of directed procurement, where we sent
actually telegrams saying, you are hereby
directed to manufacture such and such. So it was a
combination of the booming civilian economy and
the growing unpopularity of the war that made the
logistic support of the training and the support
effort almost an impossibility.
Why'd you retire from that job? That seems like it
was one of the most important jobs that you had
throughout your entire career. Right. I would
have had to retire In December of that year,
because of... December of 66? Yeah, of 67, because
of a requirement if you were five years in grade and
you had not been promoted. So if I had been promoted
to my second star, I would not have retired. But I
was, I would have been five years in grade, And
while it didn't bother me really, my dedication to
the job, there was a certain amount of
bad feeling of not having been promoted. And even
though I was doing the job and everybody was, you
know, saying what a great guy you were and great job
you're doing and so forth and so on. And this offer,
the chairman of Scott, whom I got to know there in
Philadelphia, I served in an honorary capacity on
the Board of Directors of the Greater
Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce when I was a
commander. I got that when I was in Northeast
Philly at DISC. He offered me this job at Scott to
bring me in as a corporate vice president at the
corporate level and with... operational
responsibility for the container division and
the foam division and also with some
responsibility in their research and i had
consulted and given them some advice on a
invention they had because of my knowledge with
jet fuel scott made a polyurethane foam that they
could control the pore size on the foam And they did
some experiment with it in race car tanks to pack
the tank of a race car with this foam. And you could
take a 100-gallon tank and pack this Scott foam in
it with 10-4ths to the inch. And you could fill that
100-gallon tank, even though the tank was filled
with this foam, you could fill that tank with 97
gallons of fuel. You only lose 3% because of this
foam. If that tank were ruptured like in an
accident that happened at Indianapolis at the
start of the race three or four years before that,
several cars caught on fire and a couple of guys
were killed and so forth, you wouldn't have an
explosion because the fire would not, the
explosion would not move through that foam. It
would suppress an explosion. And then I surmised
and told them that I thought the same thing would
happen in an aircraft tank. If you'd pack that
foam, I told Harry Dunning at a dinner party one
night in mid-66, why don't you have your guys, they
were working with Firestone, why don't you have
them pack a wingtip tank of an airplane, pack it
with cotton foam, fill it about half full of jet
fuel, don't fill it all away, fill it about half
fuel so there's vapor space on top of it, and I knew
how explosive that was. and fire a 30 caliber or a 50
caliber machine gun around to it. They did. They
riddled it. No explosion. No fire. Fantastic. It
was a dramatic, an absolute dramatic
development. So Harry Dunning called me at the
office and said, God damn, he said, John, you
really hit a jackpot. And I said, what happened? He
said, well, you know, you told me you suggested a
month or so ago when we were out at so-and-so's that
have them test this foam with aircraft tip tanks as
we did yesterday. And nothing happened, no
explosion. He said the Firestone people are
ecstatic. They've already called the Air Force at
Wright-Patterson and they're going to go out
there and give them a test in a day or two. And he
said, if you want to go, I can get you an invitation.
And I said, Harry, I don't know whether I ought to go
in my position as a military. And he said, well,
leave that up to you, but he said, so-and-so, I
said, well, I know General so-and-so at
Wright-Patterson, and he said, let me call him and
get him to invite you to come out there, because
you're interested in that, you know about it, and
you're interested in the phone, so he did, and this
Air Force guy called me, and I flew out there that
weekend, and I saw this test out there. Well, to
make a long story short, the Air Force went into it
in a big way. They retrofitted all the F-105 fleet
and packed foam in the tanks. And we packed foam in
the gunship tanks, the C-47s that were made into
gunships. We packed foam in some helicopter
tanks. To my knowledge, and they didn't do it in all
the aircraft, but the F-105 fleet, they did. They
made a contract and did it in them. ship the foam out
there and so forth. And Eaton did some here in the
States, but they cut the foam in blocks, kind of
like a crossword puzzle. And they worked out the
technique to open this inspection plate on the
tank and just pack the foam in there and push it in
and push it in. To my knowledge, no aircraft that
had its tank packed with foam and was penetrated by
air-to-air gunfire exploded in flight. So I'm
sure it was some pilots' lives saved, some
aircrafts saved, because lots of them were hit.
And it would just leak out of there, see, but there
wouldn't be any fire and explosion. The peculiar
thing about the phone, see, always in an
explosion, we've always thought from a physics
standpoint, we had to have two things present. We
had to have an explosive mixture. We had to have the
right mix of of the explosive mixture, iron,
oxygen, plus gas or gasoline vapors, plus a source
of ignition. But one thing that we never thought
was crucial to that was space. Space so far as being
able to propagate the explosion. So in this
polyurethane foam with ten pores to the lineal
inch, you've got a little round pore space there
that's open, no window on it, that is just a tenth of
an inch or smaller in diameter, and that's not
quite big enough to sustain an explosion and pass
it along to the next one. So I think there's really a
new law of physics involved that not only do you
have to have a physical explosive mixture and a
source of ignition, you've got to have enough
space. And
after I went to work for Scott, we talked to Boeing
and tried to get to Douglas. We talked to the Office
of Transportation. We talked to Detroit. Ford
Motor Company did pack some Thunderbirds with
foam and some Lincoln Continentals with foam and
drove them around the country and tested them. One
of them had a rear end accident and the tank
ruptured. There was no firing explosion. I had a 66
T-bird, 67 T-bird, which I packed with foam,
ordered a new tank packed with foam. Detroit said
even though the cost of the foam to pack a tank would
only be about $7 to pack the tank, the actual cost.
It would add about $125 to the cost of the
automobile. And they'd probably make it an option
rather than put it off. And they had all kinds of
things. And we finally wanted to get the
Department of Transportation to specify that all
school buses Their tanks would be packed full. And
I think they're still working on that. Scott's
still working on that. NASCAR, that controls all
the race cars, has specified that all petroleum
distillate fuel race cars. Their tanks would be
packed with safety foam. Other people since then
had developed some things to make tanks and
explosive proof. Did you get a patent on this? Did
you ever get any revenue? No, no. Scott, Scott has a
patent on the foam. No, I just consulted with him on
it. So, Harry Dunning offered me this job and it was
a, you know, it was a real good job. I held a lot of
money and I moved in at the up on the corporate level
with my name on the door and stainless steel plaque
and it was quite a prestigious thing. And where
were you stationed? I was in Philadelphia, right
there in Philadelphia. See their corporate
headquarters are out at the airport in
Philadelphia. It was actually about five miles
from my defense personnel support center. So I
retired that morning and retirement ceremonies
were 11 o'clock. And we had already moved off of the
place and moved downtown at Society Hill Towers.
We lived on the Delaware River in this high rise
downtown. So after retirement ceremony, I got my
car. No, I went home, changed clothes, and then
drove out to Scott. Got there about 1.30 and walked
in my office. They already had my name on the door
and everything. And I went to work the same day. No
kidding. Yeah. the same damn day. Then I would
have... Were you pretty bitter about the
military? No, not at all. Not one bit. And I haven't
been since then. And I stayed there for three years
almost to the day till this situation here kind of
opened up and Mrs. Adams was still living then. She
wanted me to come down and it was strictly a matter
of economics as far as I was concerned. We finally
reached an accommodation and I acquired the sales
company, the C.F. Adams Company, and she gave me a
few shares of the stock of the corporation, the
manufacturing business.
I acquired some more of it from her at a bargain
price about a year or two after I was here and then
she passed away five years ago. And are you the
owner of this company? And she left me some of the
stock and I left the rest of her estate to her two
living sisters. So I wound up as the majority owner
of the stock and have since acquired some more of
it. And it's not a big business, but it certainly
has been here 66 years. And so I've, from a personal
financial standpoint, it's been very rewarding
for me. Now you've made it both in the military
world. You've climbed the ladder of success both
in the military and in the civilian world. Is there
differences? I mean, if you become a general, in
the military or if you become a corporate leader,
is there a difference of how you do it? No. No
difference. I think the military is really a
little bit ahead of business in down-to-earth
techniques of command and operational control
and command. I think corporate business could
really learn a few things by copying some of the
techniques from the military. I think in the
corporate side of it, it's easier to do. because of
the lack of restraints on you. The only restraints
that you have from a corporate standpoint may be
your board of governors if you're a minority in the
thing, or your financial capability and so forth.
But my philosophy in taking a small business and
gradually growing it, I could have expanded I
would have owed a hell of a lot of money if I had.
That's why I closed the tool department, because I
found out it would cost me about $1,200,000 to buy
some new forging hammers and furnaces and
everything. And our competitive position was
such, I knew that we couldn't possibly pay for it.
And we were making a little money. We were at least
absorbing overhead from the rest of the plant. And
we had a good product, and people liked it. But I've
concentrated on making the small business
strong. And in gradually growing, we got bigger
and bigger in gaskets. We diversified strongly in
gaskets. We've become really a force to be
reckoned with in the gasket market in Houston. And
we've added a lot of these other things that we buy
for our own account and sell them. We've gone into
importing. So I've done it slowly and gotten in the
financial position to where we don't have to worry
about cash flow. We don't owe a dime. I don't owe a
bank a dime. We don't owe a dime for the property. We
bought the property from the estate of Ms. Adams.
We paid that off last year. We discount every damn
bill that we owe. As of this minute, I don't guess I
owe a... maybe two or three thousand dollars for
stuff we haven't even received yet. The minute an
invoice comes in, we pay it. We've got cash in the
bank. We've got really more cash on hand than we
should. We've got CDs earning money for that. So I
tried to get us in a very liquid position. And
that's the secret of a small business, to be liquid
where you don't have to borrow money. And it's just
like in the military to be prepared and keep
everything maintained so you're ready to respond
in an emergency. And I think the techniques of
running a business or running a military command
are identical. It's just a different horse of a
different color. Did you, you know, and usually
when people take a look at their career, they say,
well, I was at the right spot at the right time, or at
the wrong spot at the wrong time, and they say, in
some cases, well, my career was determined more by
luck than by the actions that I took myself. Do you
think that luck or fate is more important than your
own your own work, your own hard work? No, I think
fate has some point, some factor in it. But I think
really and truly that the end result is largely due
to the effort you make. To the effort you make, the
extra effort you make, the enthusiasm you put into
the endeavor. And I think you can fairly well
control that. by your own. But luck does play a
part. And it probably is not a constant either. It
probably in some situations plays a bigger part
than in others. It does play a part. You became a
general. Did you consider yourself at the time
while you were rising in your career, did you
consider yourself ambitious?
I guess you'd have to say that. But I don't think I
was ever ambitious to where I was overly ambitious
that I would step on somebody's toes or do somebody
in to gain a brownie point or to gain an advantage. I
think that, well, the biggest mistake that senior
military guys have both in the service and when
they leave the service, is they think they're
little tin gods. They think they're just shit on a
stick. And they think they're somebody. And it's
sad, but that's the problem with most of them when
they retire. And that's why most of them can't get a
job. Because no job is good enough for them. They
don't want to get their hands dirty. They don't
want to be down and be humble. I bet when I first came
down here, and I still do, I love to do it. I love to go
out and call on customers. I bet I'm the only
general that sold plastic fittings or that sold
leather cups. And hell, it doesn't bother me to
walk in somebody's stranger's office and
introduce myself and try to convince him to buy a
product that we make or we sell. But the average
flag officer would think that was below his
dignity or below his decorum to do that. And they
had an exalted opinion of themselves. And that
problem was evident. both in the service and it's
certainly evident out of the service. How do you
get rid of that feeling? That feeling, I was an
enlisted man in the service, and I could tell that
just around the captain of my ship. When I was in the
Navy, it was very hard to communicate. For most of
us in the enlisted corps, it was very hard to
communicate with our captain and our XO. We could
communicate with the junior officers, but they
even had trouble communicating What are you going
to do in the military? I don't know. That's a good
question. If we knew the answer to that, we could
solve a lot of personnel problems. We could solve a
lot of communication problems. Because a lot of
things go unattended to on the ship because of that
lack of communication. And a lot of things go
unattended to in a command. because of that. And
goodness knows there's a lot of retired people
that could make a contribution in civilian life if
they just had the humility to get off their goddamn
high horse and get right down and work with their
fellow Americans and do it. I have a couple of
questions about the military, just the military
itself and the changes over the last 30 years.